Find All the Things! (FAT!)

Overview

FAT is intended to be an action puzzle platformer game in the zeldroidvania
vein with a style similar to Hydra Castle Labrynth. The game will be developed
for the 2014 NESDEV competition's main category and be provided as an example
with the uc65 development package. The project will be considered successful if
the initial release version is completed in time for entry to the competition
and included on the competition cart.

Gameplay and Plot Synopsis

The player controls the hero character Lut Footen, which roughly translated from
Zelvanian means "He who Shall Find All the Things". He has come to the
Palace of Das Buttas in search of a lost treasure, said to be worth over 2,000
monies! Unfortunately for our hero, the Palace is not ADA-compliant and he is
unable to get to the treasure. He must Find All the Things! in the Palace that
will enable him to jump higher, break through barriers and open doors to finally
find his way to the most coveted treasure.

The game should include a second, harder layout for the Palace if
possible within the limitations of the competition. The second layout would be
accessable after the player has defeated the first, with a message saying "We
sorry but our monies is in another castle!" Alternatively the secondly layout
should be accessable through a "secret" code on the title screen, starting the
game using the select button instead of start.

The Palace of Das Buttas is divided into a grid of 16 by 16 rooms, each of which
consists of 15 by 11 blocks. The player and enemies move around the rooms in a
side-view fashion with gravity effecting most objects. When the player oversteps
the bounds of the room they are moved to the next room in the given direction,
with the 16 by 16 grid wraping to form a torodal space, but giving the player
the illusion of a larger, sparsely packed grid.

The Palace of Das Buttas is structured in such a way as to have a central area
that is immediately accessable at the start of the game with "mechanical locks"
gating access to the wings of the palace. Each lock is overcome with the use of
a special item that the player must find. Each wing will contain one such item,
and may contain other mechanical locks gating access to other macguffins.

A running tally of the player's progress towards acquiring all Things in the
Palace will be kept along with a realish-time up counter to track both
completion percentage and time to completion. Completion percentage should read
0% at start of game, 100% when all but one of the Things has been found, and
greater than 100% when all of the Things have been found.

The player begins the game with a short-range attack that can harm and destroy
enemies. Enemies will actively attack the player with short and long-range
attacks which will reduce the player's health. When the player's health reaches
zero, the player dies and they are returned to the last checkpoint room they
were in.

Areas of the Palace of Das Buttas in Detail

The Main Hall contains the entry way and central hub of the palace, and connects
to every other wing.

The Fruit Cellar connects to the bottom of the Main Hall and can be entered
through a one-way high-jump lock. The high-jump item can be found at the end of
the cellar, and allows the player to jump again while in mid-air. A maguffin is
high on a ledge requiring the high-jump to reach, and another behind a glass
block requiring the breaker to reach.

The Attic connects to the top of the Main Hall and can be entered through a
high-jump. A one-way fall from the Attic leads to the Moat sub-area. The Attic
contains the breaker which allows the player to break blocks of glass in the
Palace when struck with the melee attack. The Attic also contains one maguffin
requiring the use of both the high-jump and the breaker.

The Grand Hall connects off the Main Hall near the entrance and has no
mechanical lock at it's entrance. At the end of the Grand Hall is suit that
allows the wearer to sink in water. The Grand Hall also contains two maguffins,
one needing the high-jump to access and the other requiring the breaker.

The Treasury connects to the central portion of the Main Hall and is gated by
a water mechanical lock that requires suit to pass. The final room containing
the Monies can only be entered using the breaker, and the Monies are on a high
pedistal needing the high-jump to reach. This area contains one maguffin that
requires the player to fall through a one-way drop into a path that eventually
leads to the maguffin, and then through another one-way fall into the Fruit
Cellar.

The Moat sub-area is reached by falling through a one-way drop in the Attic
area, or through a high-jump sequence at the entrance. The high-jump sequence is
the only way out of the Moat sub-area. This area contains four maguffins,
three which require each of the mechanical Things, plus the ranged weapon.

Maguffins

Nimble Bastard Booster Fruit - An jar of ferminted fruit. Fruit that makes you
toot. Toots from your boot! Allows the player to jump again in mid-air, and does
minor damage to enemies that are touched by the cloud of gas.

Sexy Bastard Bastard Suit - A heavy suit of armor that makes the wearer sink in
water, but it looks damn sexy!

Little Bastard Bastard Bat - A baseball bat for little bastards, great for
breaking glass windows.

Incredible Bastard Bastard Beam - A laser cannon for the most incredible of
bastards, allows the user to fire projectiles. La-La-La-Layza BEAMS!

Cheeky Bastard Palette Changer - A strange item that changes the palette of the
hero and reduces damage received from enemies by half.

Bloody Bastard Broken Heart - One half of a broken heart, which the hero then
consumes to charge his insane robot powers! How else would this work? Gives the
hero a longer life bar. There are a total of eight to find, collect 'em all!

Enemies


